E2fsprogs 1.47.0 (February 5, 2023)
===================================

Updates/Fixes since v1.46.6:

UI and Features
---------------

Add support for the orphan_file feature, which speeds up workloads that
are deleting or truncating a large number files in parallel.  This
compat feature was first supported in the v5.15 Linux kernel.

The mke2fs program (via the mke2fs.conf file) now enables the
metadata_csum_seed and orphan_file features by default.  The
metadata_csum_seed feature is an incompat feature which is first
supported in the Linux kernel starting in the 4.4 kernel and e2fsprogs
1.43.

Mke2fs now supports the extended option "assume_storage_prezeroed" which
causes mke2fs to skip zeroing the journal and inode tables and to mark
the inode tables as zeroed.

Add support to tune2fs and e2label to set the label and UUID for a
mounted file system using a ioctl, which is more reliable than modifying
the superblock via writing to the block device.  The kernel support for
setting the label landed in v5.17, while the support for adding the UUID
landed in v6.0.  If the ioctls are not supported, tune2fs and e2label
will fall back old strategy of directly modifying the superblock.

Allow tune2fs to disable the casefold feature after scanning all of the
directories do not have the Casefold flag set.


Fixes
-----

Fix a potential unbalanced mutex unlock when there is a short read while
using the bounce buffer when using direct I/O.


Performance, Internal Implementation, Development Support etc.
--------------------------------------------------------------

Fix various Coverity and compiler warnings.

Add the new function ext2fs_xattrs_read_inode() which takes an in-memory
inode to avoid needing to reread an inode that was already read into
memory.

Teach debugfs logdump command the -n option which forces printing a
specified number of transactions, even when a block missing a magic
number would have stopped the logdump.  (This is for debugging
journalling problems.)
